worked in frontend testing & backend testing

tools

selenium 
appium/wdio
postman
RestSharp/Nunit/c#

api automation libraries 
- Rest Assured 
- Apache HttpClient



how to validate schema for nested objected
A schema is a structure, which is defined in JSON format. 
Answer :  jsonschemaValidator in restassured we can validate schema

how to traverse json
JSONObject json = new JSONObject(output.toString());
JSONArray result = json.getJSONArray("results");


serialization and deserialization of json
conversion of java objects to json aka serialization
conversion of json to java object is known as deserialization

library for serialization and deserialization
jackson
gson
json-io
Genson

what is object mapper? 
Its a class provides functionality for reading and writing json from basics pojos

what are 5 imp points to consider for api automation
- data creation unique generated , non repeated data
- response code,response body
- verification of data put patch put once deleted cross verify with database
- designing of test such that first we should create a data i.e post then get patch put delete.. idea is to reuse data.
- functional test through api for example if we do transaction through api it should visible on orders or transactions on ui
- running multiple threads and verifying that api 
- correlation of data
- schema validation so we know if there are any changes in api.
monolithic vs microservices

complete service one single application - monolithic
demerits it takes time to debug the application if there is an issue
if something is fails complete system fails
You must redeploy the entire application on each update.
Impact of a change is usually not very well understood which leads to do extensive manual testing.
Monolithic applications can also be difficult to scale when different modules have conflicting resource requirements.
Monolithic applications has a barrier to adopting new technologies. Since changes in frameworks or languages will affect an entire application it is extremely expensive in both time and cost.	

microservices - require good infrastructure
- require more maintainance

for which application monolithic approach can be use instead of microservices ????

what is api gateway?
advantage of api gateway?
Exactly what the API gateway does will vary from one implementation to another. Some common functions include authentication, routing, rate limiting, billing, monitoring, analytics, policies, alerts, and security.

status code
200 - ok
201 - Created
202 - Accepted
204 - No Content

400 - Bad request
401 - unauthorized
402 - payment required
403 - Forbidden
404 - Not Found/The server cannot find the requested resource
405 - Method not allowed
413 - payload too large
415 - Unsupported media types

500 - Internal server error
501 - Not implemented
502 - Bad Gateway
503 - Service Unavailable
504 - Gateway Timeout

Selenium disadvantages
- otp generation on phone
- catpcha
- selection of image for verification
- cannot automate desktop or mobile 
- Limited support for image testing
- no built in reporting facility
- security testing
- load testing 
- hardware testing


what is alert?
alert is popup/ window 
types of alert
- prompt alert
- confirmation alert


